<img src="./3keixr3b.png"
style="width:1.08362in;height:1.08362in" />**PROJECT** **:** **MAFIA**

Core Functionalities Decomposition

1\. Code Analysis & Understanding

Category: Core Development Tools

Feature Name

Key Components

Considerations

Purpose & Benefits

User Interactions

Technical Specifications

Design

Codebase Analysis Tool Analyze complex codebases via structure and
content scanning.

Users input

directory paths to scan; view dependency maps and architecture diagrams.
src/utils/EnhancedProjectScanner.ts,
src/analysis/Architecturevalidator.ts \|-Parse directory structures
recursively.- Generate Mermaid.js diagrams

for architecture.- Error handling for invalid paths. \| Responsive
dashboard with collapsible file trees and embedded Mermaid

visualizations.

Language Understanding Module \| Support all major languages
(TypeScript/JavaScript, Python, Java) for analysis.

Users

select files to analyze syntax and patterns.

src/ai/LanguageDetector.ts

src/analysis/CodeParser.ts.

-Use AST parsing for syntax-Maintain language-specific regex patterns.-

Cache results for performance. \| Clean syntax highlighting using
Tailwind color utilities and monospace fonts.

Dependency Tracing Module \| Visualize dependencies between files and
modules.

dependency graphs to see file relationships.

src/views/DependencyGraph.ts

\|src/analysis/DependencyMapper.ts.

\| Users click nodes in

-Traverse import/export statements.- Build dependency trees with
recursion.-Interactive graph using D3.js with hover effects and
Tailwind-styled nodes/edges.

Handle circular dependencies gracefully. \|

2\. Code Modification & Enhancement

Category: Development Workflow

Feature Name

Key Components

Considerations

Purpose & Benefits

User Interactions

Technical Specifications

\| Design

Diff-Based Editor

\| Apply precise code changes via diff patches.

\| Users upload diffs or edit files

directly in a Monaco Editor-like interface.

\|src/ai/CodeModifier.ts, src/views/CodeEditor.ts

1-Parse unified diff format.- Validate diffs against current file state-
Undo/redo functionality. Tailwind-styled Ul, syntax highlighting, and
diff markers. I

\| Monaco Editor integration with

File Creation Wizard \| Generate complete files with best practices
(e.g., TypeScript interfaces).

with metadata; auto-generate boilerplate code.

src/templates/file_templates.ts

src/export/CodeGenerator.ts.

\| Users fill templates

-Use Handlebars templates.- Validate template parameters.- Auto-add to

project structure. Form-based interface with input validation and live
previews using Tailwind forms

Architecture Refactoring Tool \| Reorganize project structures while
maintaining functionality.

drop files/modules in a visual layout editor.

src/views/ProjectLayout.ts

\| Users drag-and-

src/analysis/RefactorEngine.ts.

-Track file dependencies.- Preview changes before execution.- Atomic

commits. Drag-and-drop interface with grid

layout and real-time preview using Tailwind grid.

3\. Tool Integration

Category: Development Environment

Feature Name

Key Components

Considerations

Purpose & Benefits

User Interactions

Technical Specifications

\| Design

Build Configuration Editor \| Manage Webpack/Jest configurations via Ul.

(e.g., minification, test coverage) in a form.

src/templates/config templates.ts

\| Users toggle settings

src/export/ConfigGenerator.ts.

-Parse JSON/YAML config files.- Validate schema compliance.- Auto-

save changes. Form with collapsible sections, syntax Extension
Dependency Manager \| Install/upgrade VS

highlighting for config snippets, and save buttons styled with Tailwind.
I Code dependencies via Ul.

extensions and manage versions.

src/views/ExtensionList.ts

src/commands/ExtensionManager.ts.

Users search for

1-Query VS Code Marketplace API.- Validate compatibility.- Batch

install/uninstall. \| Searchable list with version badges, progress
bars, and Tailwind-styled cards.

4\. Testing & Quality Assurance

Category: Development Validation

Feature Name

Key Components

Considerations

Purpose & Benefits

User Interactions

Technical Specifications

\| Design

Test Framework Enhancer

Extend Jest with custom reporters and coverage visualization.

test suites and view coverage heatmaps.

src/views/TestCoverage.ts.

src/commands/TestRunner.ts,

\| Users configure

\- Integrate Jest CLI.-Generate LCOV reports.- Handle parallel test
runs.

Heatmap visualization with color gradients and responsive tables styled
with Tailwind.

Test Generator

Auto-generate Jest tests from code snippets.

Users paste code and select

test cases, generated tests appear in a preview pane,
src/a1/TestGenerator.ts, src/views/TestPreview.ts

-Use Al to infer test scenarios.- Validate test syntax.-Auto-run tests.

Split-pane interface with Monaco Editor for code

input and Tailwind-styled test results. I

5\. Documentation

Category: Knowledge Management

Feature Name

Key Components

Considerations

Purpose & Benefits

User Interactions

Technical Specifications

Design

Auto-Documentation Tool Generate Markdown docs from code comments and
structure.

files to document, preview and export to .md files.

src/templates/doc_templates.ts

src/export/DocumentationExporter.ts.

\| Users select

1-Parse JSDoc/TypeDoc comments. Auto-generate API references.- Validate

doc consistency. \| Preview pane with live updates, export buttons, and
Tailwind-styled documentation cards. I

Changelog Manager

Track version history and auto-generate changelogs from Git commits.

commits by version and view formatted changelogs.

src/views/ChangelogViewer.ts

\| Users filter

src/commands/ChangelogGenerator.ts.

1-Parse Git commit messages.-Group by semantic versioning.-Export to md.

Timeline view with version tags and collapsible commit details using
Tailwind animations. I

6\. Project-Specific Capabilities

Purpose & Benefits

User Interactions

Technical Specifications

\| Design

Category: MAFIA Extension Features

Feature Name

Key Components

Considerations

\+

Al Service Enhancer

\| Users input

\| Improve AlServiceV2 with real-time suggestions and operation
monitoring.

prompts in a sidebar, see suggestions and execution status in real-time
src/ai/AIServiceV2.ts.

src/views/AIAssistantView.tsx

\| Sidebar with input field, suggestion cards, and a status bar using
Tailwind flex utilities. \| Dependency Mapper Ul Visualize project
dependencies in the VS Code webview.

1-WebSocket for streaming.- Rate limiting.- Error logging to SQLite.

see dependency paths; filter by module.

src/views/DependencyMap.ts

src/analysis/DependencyMapper.ts.

\| Users click nodes to

1-Build dependency graph from AST.- Handle large projects with
pagination.-

Export graphs. \| Interactive graph with hover tooltips and
Tailwind-styled buttons for filtering.

Quality Dashboard \| Display code quality metrics (coverage, linting,
complexity).

dashboard; drill down into problematic files.

src/views/QualityDashboard.ts

Users view metrics in a

src/analysis/QualityMetrics.ts

1-Integrate ESLint/TS lint.- Calculate cyclomatic complexity.-
Auto-refresh on

save. Card-based layout with progress bars and color-coded statuses
using Tailwind gradients. I

Design & Usability Guidelines

1\. Frontend Implementation Plan:

Base Structure:

• Use \<script src=<u>"https://cdn.tailwindess.com"</u>\>\</script\> for
Tailwind.

Import Google Font: \<link
href=<u>"https://fonts.googleapis.com/css27</u>

family Inter:wght@[400,500,700&display swap"
r](https://cdn.tailwindess.com)el="stylesheet"\>.

Base layout uses Tailwind's cont[ainer and grid utilities for
responsiven](https://fonts.googleapis.com/css27)ess.

Ul Components:

Headers: bg-gray-100 p-4 text-2x1 font-bold with Inter font.

Cards: bg-white shadow-nd rounded-1g p-4 border border-gray-200 for
modals and panels.

Buttons: px-4 py-2 rounded-md font-medium transition-colors with hover
effects.

Forms: Use flex and space-x-2 for input groups.

Responsive Design:

• Mobile breakpoint: @media (max-width: 768px) collapses grids into
vertical stacks.

Use w-full for inputs and flex-col layouts on smaller screens.

Accessibility:

aria-label for all interactive elements.

High contrast mode toggle using Tailwind's dark: variants.

• Screen reader-friendly labels and error messages.

2\. Single System Architecture Alignment

Central ExtensionMain.ts coordinates all features.

Event-driven communication via VS Code's vscode.postMessage

Shared state via workspace.getConfiguration for settings and
preferences.

Implementation Plan

1\. Code Analysis & Understanding

Develop EnhancedProjectScanner.ts to recursively parse directories.

Integrate Mermaid.js for architecture diagrams in
src/views/ArchitectureViewer.ts

Add error handling for invalid paths in
src/analysis/ArchitectureValidator.ts

2\. Code Modification:

Implement diff parsing in CodeModifier.ts using diff library

Build Monaco Editor integration in CodeEditor.ts with Tailwind styling.

3\. Testing Framework:

Create Jest reporter in TestRunner.ts to generate LCOV reports.

Design Test Coverage. ts to visualize coverage with color-coded
heatmaps.

4\. Documentation:

Auto-generate docs from JSDoc in DocumentationExporter.ts.

Build ChangelogViewer.ts to parse Git commits and format into cards.

5\. Project-Specific Features:

Enhance AlServiceV2.ts with WebSocket streaming and rate limiting.

• Build QualityDashboard.ts to aggregate ESLint/TS lint results.

-----------------------------------------

\*\*Project File Structure\*\*

MAFIA/ ├── docs/

│ ├── <u>CODE_ANALYSIS.md</u>

│ ├── <u>MODIFICATION_GUIDE.md</u> │ ├── <u>TOOLS_REFERENCE.md</u>

│ └── <u>QUALITY_ASSURANCE.md</u> ├── src/

│ ├── ai/

│ │ ├── CodeModifier.ts │ │ ├[──
CodeParser.ts](http://quality_assurance.md)

│ │ ├── LanguageDetector.ts │ │ └── TestGenerator.ts

│ ├── analysis/

│ │ ├── EnhancedProjectScanner.ts │ │ ├── ArchitectureValidator.ts

│ │ └── DependencyMapper.ts │ ├── export/

│ │ ├── CodeGenerator.ts

│ │ ├── DocumentationExporter.ts │ │ └── ConfigGenerator.ts

│ ├── commands/

│ │ ├── TestRunner.ts

│ │ ├── ChangelogGenerator.ts │ │ └── ExtensionManager.ts

│ ├── views/

│ │ ├── CodeEditor.tsx

│ │ ├── DependencyGraph.tsx │ │ ├── TestCoverage.tsx

│ │ ├── QualityDashboard.tsx │ │ └── AIAssistantView.tsx

│ ├── templates/

│ │ ├── file_templates.ts

│ │ └── config_templates.ts │ └── utils/

│ ├── DiffParser.ts

│ └── SQLiteLogger.ts ├── webview-ui/

│ ├── index.html

│ ├── dashboard.html

│ └── documentation.html ├── package.json

├── sqlite.db └── jest.config.js

---------------------------------------------

File Level Details

1\. src/analysis/EnhancedProjectScanner.ts

Purpose: Scan directories to analyze project structure and dependencies.

• Functionalities/Responsibilities:

Recursively parse directories and files.

Generate Mermaid.js architecture diagrams.

Validate directory paths and handle errors.

• Implementation Details:

Use Node.js fs module for file system operations.

Build Mermaid syntax strings dynamically based on file relationships.

Error handling for invalid paths using try-catch.

Technical Considerations:

Optimize for large projects with pagination.

Cache scan results to avoid redundant processing.

• Dependencies:

Architecturevalidator.ts (validates diagram syntax).

DependencyMapper.ts (tracks dependencies).

2\. src/ai/CodeParser.ts

• Purpose: Parse code syntax for analysis across languages.

• Functionalities/Responsibilities:

Detect language type (TypeScript, Python, Java).

Extract syntax trees (AST) for dependency tracing.

Identify function/class definitions and imports.

• Implementation Details:

Use @typescript-eslint/parser for TypeScript AST. Regular expressions
for non-AST languages (e.g., Python).

Maintain a registry of language-specific parsers.

• Technical Considerations

Handle edge cases like minified code.

Support for multi-language projects.

• Dependencies.

LanguageDetector.ts (determines file type).

DependencyMapper.ts (processes AST imports).

3\. src/export/CodeGenerator.ts

• Purpose: Generate boilerplate code from templates.

• Functionalities/Responsibilities:

Render Handlebars templates with user inputs.

• Validate template parameters (e.g., class names).

Auto-add generated files to project structure.

• Implementation Details.

Use handlebars library for template rendering.

• Validate inputs against schema (e.g., @Validate('className')).

Write files using fs.writeFilesync.

• Technical Considerations:

• Prevent overwriting existing files.

Maintain template consistency across languages.

• Dependencies:

file_templates.ts (stores template strings).

CodeModifier.ts (applies diffs if needed).

4\. src/views/CodeEditor.tsx

• Purpose: Provide a Monaco Editor-like interface for code editing.

• Functionalities/Responsibilities:

Display files with syntax highlighting.

Apply diffs via CodeModifier.ts.

Show real-time validation errors.

• Implementation Details:

Integrate Monaco Editor via CDN.

Use DiffParser.ts to highlight changes.

Bind keyboard shortcuts (e.g., Ctrl+S to save).

• Technical Considerations:

Optimize performance for large files.

Sync with backend for real-time collaboration.

• Dependencies:

CodeModifier.ts (applies diffs).

SQLiteLogger.ts (logs edits).

5\. src/commands/TestRunner.ts

Purpose: Execute Jest tests and generate coverage reports.

Functionalities/Responsibilities:

\- Run Jest CLI commands.

Parse LCOV coverage data.

Display results in TestCoverage.tsx.

Implementation Details:

Use child_process.exec to run Jest.

Parse coverage<u>/lcov.info</u> for line coverage.

Handle parallel test execution.

Technical Considerations:

Avoid blocking Ul during long runs.

Cache coverage data for quick reloads.

• Dependencies:

TestGenerator.ts (auto-generate tests).

jest.config.js (configuration).

6\. src/views/Quality Dashboard.tsx

Purpose: Display code quality metrics (coverage, linting).

Functionalities/Responsibilities

Aggregate ESLint/TS lint results.

Show cyclomatic complexity scores.

Allow filtering by file or module.

Implementation Details

Use axios to fetch ESLint reports.

Render charts with react-chartjs-2.

Highlight problematic files in a sortable table.

Technical Considerations:

Real-time updates on file saves.

Responsive layout for mobile views.

• Dependencies:

QualityMetrics.ts (calculates scores).

DependencyMapper.ts (dependency context).

7\. src/ai/AIServiceV2.ts

Purpose: Core Al service for real-time suggestions.

• Functionalities/Responsibilities:

Stream responses via WebSocket.

Rate-limit API calls to prevent abuse.

Log interactions to sqlite.db.

Implementation Details:

Use ws library for WebSocket streaming.

Implement exponential backoff for rate limits.

Store logs in SQLite using SQLiteLogger.ts.

Technical Considerations:

Graceful degradation if API is unavailable.

Secure API key storage in VS Code settings.

• Dependencies:

SQLiteLogger.ts (logging).

PermissionService.ts (user consent).

8\. webview-ui/dashboard.html

Purpose: Main Ul for code analysis and tools.

Functionalities/Responsibilities:

Display dependency graphs and quality metrics.

Integrate with Monaco Editor for code editing.

Show real-time Al suggestions.

Implementation Details:

Use Tailwind CDN for styling.

Import Google Font (Inter) for typography.

Embed React components via dangerously Set InnerHTML.

Technical Considerations:

Avoid CORS by using CDN resources.

Responsive design with Tailwind breakpoints.

Dependencies:

CodeEditor.tsx, DependencyGraph.tsx, AIAssistantView.tsx.

===================================

Additional Technical Considerations

1\. Database:

Use SQLite3 for logging (sqlite.db).

Tables: Logs (interactions), coverage (test metrics).

Avoid better-sqlite3 and use sqlite3 package.

2\. Frontend:

Multi-page architecture: index.html (home), dashboard.html,
documentation.html.

Use Tailwind CDN: \<script
src=<u>"https://cdn.tailwindcss.com</u>"\>\</script\> Images: Reference
Pexels URLs (e.g.. \<img src="<u>https://images.pexels.com/</u>..."
alt="..." /\>).

3\. Security:

Sanitize inputs in CodeModifier[.ts to prevent
injection.](https://images.pexels.com)

• Encrypt API keys in VS Code settings.

4\. Performance:

Debounce file scans in EnhancedProjectScanner.ts.

Lazy-load large dependency graphs.

5\. Testing:

• Jest tests for core modules (tests directory). Mock Al responses in
AIServiceV2.test.ts.

Frontend vs. Backend Split

• Frontend:

• All Ul components (\*.tsx files).

Webview HTML/CSS/JS(webview-ui/).

Dependency on Tailwind CDN and Google Fonts.

• Backend

Core logic (src/ai/, src/analysis/, src/export/).

CLI commands (src/commands/).

SQLite interactions (SQLiteLogger.ts).

This plan ensures all features are implemented with clear technical
specifications, adhering to the product design and avoiding
CORS/dependency issues.

===================================

Mermaid syntax 👿👿👿👿👿

Sequence Diagram (Mermaid Syntax)

sequenceDiagram

participant User

participant VSCodeUI as VS Code UI

participant EnhancedProjectScanner as Project Scanner

participant CodeGenerator as Code Generator

participant TestRunner as Test Runner

participant AIService as AT Service

participant SQLiteDB as SQLite Database

User-\>\>VSCodeUI: Open MAFIA Extension

VSCodeUI-\>\>EnhancedProjectScanner: Request project analysis

EnhancedProjectScanner-\>\>SQLiteDB: Log analysis start

EnhancedProjectScanner--\>\>VSCodeUI: Return Mermaid architecture
diagram

User-\>\>VSCodeUI: Generate new TypeScript file via wizard

VSCodeUI-\>\>CodeGenerator: Request boilerplate code

CodeGenerator-\>\>SQLiteDB: Log file generation

CodeGenerator--\>\>VSCodeUI: Return generated file content

User-\>\>VSCodeUI: Run Jest tests

VSCodeUI-\>\>TestRunner: Execute tests

TestRunner-\> SQLiteDB: Save coverage data

TestRunner--\>\>VSCodeUI: Return test results and heatmap

User-\>\>VSCodell: Request Al code suggestion

VSCodeUT-\>\>AIService: Send prompt via WebSocket

AIService-\>\>SQLiteDB: Log interaction

AlService--\>\>VSCodeUI: Stream real-time suggestions

User-\>\>VSCodeUI: Save configuration changes VSCodeUI-\>\>SQLiteDB:
Update config table

SQLiteDB--\>\>VSCodeUI: Return success confirmation

===================================

\# Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) and API Endpoint Specifications

\## Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD)

\`\`\`mermaid erDiagram

> Logs \|\|--o{ Coverage : "tracks"
>
> Logs \|\|--o{ TestResults : "references" Coverage }\|--o{ TestResults
> : "contains" Dependencies }\|--o{ Files : "belongs to"
>
> Logs { int id
>
> datetime timestamp varchar action_type text details
>
> }
>
> Coverage {
>
> int id
>
> float line_coverage float branch_coverage text file_path
>
> }
>
> Dependencies { int id
>
> text source_file text dependent_file
>
> text dependency_type }
>
> TestResults { int id
>
> text test_name text test_result
>
> text error_message int coverage_id
>
> }
>
> Files { int id
>
> text file_path text language
>
> datetime last_modified }

API Endpoint Specifications 1. Code Analysis Endpoints

\| Endpoint \| Method \| Purpose \| Parameters \| \|---\|---\|---\|---\|

\| /analyze/project \| POST \| Scan project directory and return
architecture diagram. \| directoryPath: string \|

\| /analyze/file \| GET \| Analyze syntax and structure of a specific
file. \| filePath: string, language: string, dependencies:
Dependency\[\] \|

2\. Code Modification Endpoints

\| Endpoint \| Method \| Purpose \| Parameters \| \|---\|---\|---\|---\|

\| /generate/file \| POST \| Generate boilerplate code from templates.
\| templateName: string, params: object \|

\| /modify/diff \| PUT \| Apply a diff patch to a file. \| filePath:
string, diff: boolean, newContent: string \|

3\. Testing & Quality Endpoints

\| Endpoint \| Method \| Purpose \| Parameters \| \|---\|---\|---\|---\|

\| /test/run \| POST \| Execute Jest tests and return coverage. \|
testPattern: string \|

\| /coverage/report \| GET \| Fetch latest coverage data for a file. \|
filePath: string, lineNumber:

number, searchCoverage: number \| 4. AI Service Endpoints

\| Endpoint \| Method \| Purpose \| Parameters \| \|---\|---\|---\|---\|

\| /ai/suggest \| POST \| Get real-time code suggestions. \| prompt:
string, context: string, suggestions: string\[\], confidence: number \|

\| /ai/generateTests \| POST \| Auto-generate Jest tests from code
snippet. \| codeSnippet: string, tests: string, valid: boolean \|

5\. Database Management Endpoints

\| Endpoint \| Method \| Purpose \| Parameters \| \|---\|---\|---\|---\|

\| /logs/save \| POST \| Log user interactions. \| action: string,
details: string, logId: int \|

\| /dependencies/list \| GET \| Fetch dependency relationships for a
file. \| filePath: string, dependencies: Dependency\[\] \|

Key Technical Notes

1\. WebSocket for AI Streaming

\* Address: ws://localhost:3000/ai/stream for real-time suggestions.

\* Message Format: { type: "suggestion", data: { code: string,
confidence: number } } 2. SQLite Schema

CREATE TABLE logs (

> id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
>
> timestamp DATETIME DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP, action_type TEXT NOT
> NULL,

details TEXT );

CREATE TABLE dependencies ( id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, source_file TEXT NOT
NULL,

> dependent_file TEXT NOT NULL,

dependency_type TEXT CHECK(dependency_type IN ('IMPORT', 'INCLUDE')) );

3\. Error Handling

\* All endpoints return 400 for invalid inputs.

\* Database errors are logged to SQLiteDB and returned as 500 responses.

This design ensures seamless integration of all features while
maintaining scalability and performance for large projects.

I will follow this plan thoroughly in my implementation and implement
all the files in the plan.
